This is Poldhu in Cornwall.
It is the easternmost and westernmost place on the main British island.
From here, you can head west to Newfoundland, Canada, on a straight line without interruption.
And here, too, Guglielmo Marconi and his team demonstrated,
that you can transmit radio signals even over the horizon.
In 1903, however, his attention turned in the opposite direction.
Literally. It's about 400 km east of here.
He wanted to show the first public show
wireless long-range transmission.
Signals from here,
from this now destroyed building in Cornwall,
would be transferred to Chelmsford. Then resubmitted
and detected in London with the participation of many viewers.
And so in the prestigious auditorium of the Royal Institute of Great Britain,
where Faraday and many, many others have lectured and still lecture on science,
a highly respected physicist John Ambrose Fleming
he was preparing for Marconi's morse signals.
For this reason, a sixty-foot-high special antenna was added to the roof.
And remember: It happened more than a century ago.
Marconi sent a signal strong enough to be able to take him three hundred miles away.
Plus: He claimed to have solved the problem of listeners.
In a letter to St. James Gazette Marconi said:
"I can set my devices so that no other device is set up
he could not accept. "Which is theoretically true,
but it actually describes the tuning of the radio station.
The whole world can listen to you when it knows the right frequency.
This is not encryption, but broadcasting.
So let's introduce Nevila Maskelyna.
He was a variety magician like his father.
He was interested in wireless technology. He even used it in his illusions.
He himself was able to transmit wirelessly.
But the problem was that Marconi had a patent.
I know this will sound crazy today,
but the very idea of ​​wireless transmission was entirely new
and Marconi had a patent.
If you wanted to carry something in Morse's alphabet, you had to be licensed.
Maskelyne was not very excited about it.
He already had a mast built fifty feet short of one of Marconi's stations in Cornwall
and managed to disrupt broadcasting.
And in his diary, along with a beautiful scientific insult, he wrote:
"The problem was not disturbance, but how to deal with a huge surplus of energy."
Marconi and Fleming knew who was Maskelyne.
And they feared him.
And by the way: From my mouth it sounds like a story of two rivals,
because I simplify it a lot.
At that time, many scientists were engaged in similar projects
and they all had to deal with Marconi's patents.
The competition was cruel. But only one of them decided to direct the attack.
So in the Royal Institute,
just a few minutes before the expected arrival of Marconi's signal,
when the audience was preparing and listening to Fleming
the assertion of the system, which today seems to be slightly dubious,
there was a silent tap on the receiver.
Fleming was somewhat lying. He did not notice it.
But his assistant noticed. And he knew Morse's alphabet.
And the word "rats" sounded from the receiver. Several times in a row: "Rats, rats, rats ..."
And then the receiver tapped the insulting rhyming twin about Marconi
and several tremendous sarcastic quotes from Shakespeare's works.
And then he stopped. Only a few moments before the start of Marconi's own broadcast.
Marconi and Fleming were angry.
They thought it was sabotage using some refined method.
Maybe sending signals slightly out of phase
or grounding somewhere around, but it was not.
Maskelyne just installed a simple but powerful transmitter
in its nearby varieties.
He did not worry about frequencies at all.
It simply sent a broadband signal,
-if it was sent today-
heard from any analogue radio within a few miles.
No matter what station was tuned.
I guess I would have destroyed any sensitive devices around.
Their quarrels continued in the papers.
In the angry letters in Times
Fleming called it "scientific hooliganism."
And Maskelyne confessed and defended his hacking-
-that was hacking-as a necessary demonstration.
But the most important thing was the opinion of the people. And she got them
Marconi's credibility with a big bang.
Even Punch, a well-known satirical magazine,
he also suffered a blow,
that he deliberately dispatched the fake "Marconigrams".
In the modern times of security, we speak of responsible discovery.
When you find anywhere in the system a security vulnerability,
you should inform it quietly about the company that is involved,
and leave them time to repair.
If, however, for a reasonably long time,
still the error occurs, they are not going to fix it
and if you can reveal it so you do not break the law and cause damage ...
Well, sometimes it is right to cause such a smaller drama.
After all, you have over a century of history of such dramas behind you.
The YouTube Channel of the Royal Institute contains lots of cool videos,
including Tales From The Prep Room,
which is a series I'd like to recommend.
Check out their channel and sign up for a subscription.
And they have a great thank you for letting me film at this historic auditorium.
Translation: minihry36